good morning and for us to go ahead
copy or at least started to we're just
getting ready to come out with the third
edition of quicktime for the web and
it's still a virtual book but it's
almost ready actually it's at the
printers now and so if you do want to
get a copy of the 3rd edition with
QuickTime 63 go over the Morgan
counseling booth in the in the main
auditorium there in the area they've got
a special going twenty percent off and
free shipping if you want to order it at
the show here so it's kind of a good
deal because of quicktime pro so you can
do some authoring the session is quick
time for the web and we're here we go
that's me I'm Steve Cooley senior
technical writer at apple and we're
going to be talking about using
QuickTime over the internet that's a
really broad topics we're going to
narrow it down some really going to be
talking primarily about putting
quicktime on your website so we're going
to try to bridge the gap between
painfully technical and painfully
non-technical and just just stick with
painful so it's mostly going to be about
HTML will be some movie tricks for movie
authors a little bit of XML and maybe
some JavaScript if we can get that far
into the presentation we'll see how
we're doing is are we got mainly HTML
office here or movie authors okay
applications programmer okay perl PHP
programmers okay all right we'll see
where we go here this is going to be
about how to click quicktime movie on a
web page how to launch quicktime player
from your web page get those folks game
movies going and how to play other media
mp3 mp4 anything you want to play using
quicktime besides a quicktime movie
specifics about working with the impact
for in quick time together the way they
play together and don't play together
and how to put live and pre-recorded
streams on your web page and to decide
when to stream and when to use what we
call fast our technology and I'll get
into that a little bit more put media
skins and chapter lists with streams so
mixing streaming and non streaming
content
just kind of tricky and a little bit
about scripting bricktown using
javascript okay so putting quick time on
a webpage the main thing there is
getting quick time to come up at all
through the browser you're coming
through a browser interface so the
question is really how does the browser
choose what player 2 to bring up for
multimedia and how do you particularly
make it to use QuickTime and there's
three HTML tags you can use inside of a
webpage to bring multimedia into a
browser the href tag which is your
standard hypertext link for text the
embed tag which has been around for a
long time and the object tag which is a
little bit more recent and the hrs is
the most obvious thing to do is you put
text like it says click here for the
movie and you link to a movie and people
click it and why shouldn't you do that
well because it doesn't really work very
reliably the browser doesn't really know
what file type it is here you're not
you're not able to tell the browser what
the file type is or what plugin you want
to use you're just giving it a URL so
the browser says well what kind of file
do i have here and it asks the server
typically if it's on a web server or you
know some CD it just looked in an
internal table but in either case it's
going to look at file extension I the
server is or the browser is I think jpg
it goes oh it's a jpeg at the PDF it
goes well with the PDF a mov ago so it's
a QuickTime movie hopefully but it's up
to the people who run the server to
update the table or people who write the
browser to keep that table updated and
people can fool around with those tables
to some extent so if the extension is
wrong if you don't name your movie mov
if it's just my movie nothing or if
that's not in the table then it
typically shows up as text your movie
shows up is a big screen full of text
and I think you've probably seen that
sometimes you click a link and kids
spring full of text it doesn't see what
they had in mind and if the extension is
in the table well then what happens well
we switch over to demo machine here a
number of things can happen but it's
it's not terribly predictable
if all is well then when you click this
link simply a little bit bigger text
here well it's too big then what will
happen is that the movie will okay in a
blank window all by itself which is not
a terribly attractive way to display
things typically but that's not the only
way it could happen it could happen in a
window that's just specifically sized
for that movie or it could open in
quicktime player or it could try to open
a windows media player all sorts of
things can happen and it's really up to
the up to the browser and that's really
not the choice that you wanted to make
and even if it does open in quicktime
player then what happens well it may
download it and open it in quicktime
player in which case you're your viewers
sitting there waiting while the whole
movie downloads before it starts or it
may download it and then say okay well
that's good if you've ever launched
quick to a PDF link you've probably seen
this sometimes it opens in the browser
window sometimes it opens in preview
sometimes it opens in Acrobat and
sometimes it just downloads here is a
desktop and you have to double click it
and again those those are not a lot of
choices you want to leave a hanging in
the air you want to be able to have some
control over that so then what happens
is quicktime is not installed somebody
clicks that length well you don't you
can't don't have any way to tell it what
plug-in you want to use so if the user
doesn't have quicktime maybe they see a
broken puzzle piece or it can complain
and say do you want to plug in and they
say yes and then it goes crashing around
looking for plugins somewhere but it
doesn't know which one to get or it
gives it the old college try as well
I've heard of QuickTime movies maybe I
can fly it play that and explore is
really wonderful if taxes no let's go
for it I can play QuickTime movies that
were authored before 1992 and usually
what you see is a broken windows media
application player icon and that's also
not what you want to see so the best way
to do it is to use the embed tag and
again if you have that if you're using a
tool to do your HTML for using
go live or dreamweaver then it will
typically do this for you drag a
QuickTime movie under the page it'll
make an embed tag for you and the way
the embed tag works is to let you
specify the URL but also the file type
so it doesn't have to get and also the
URL to plug in if it doesn't have one so
your source code looks like this you've
got your source which is a move you want
to play the type video quicktime the
plugins page apple com / quicktime /
download so this will enter the height
and width on the page the browser gets
the file type from the web server or the
HTML web server doesn't know you put it
in your HTML the plug in it and
installed it says okay I know which URL
to go to to get it and plug-in is
installed it opens in the current web
page and sure you run the demo machine
here so this is a little bit more
attractive we're moving from the middle
of web their wrists rated for it and the
embed tag is almost painfully simple
you've got the source the height and the
width the height is going to be
typically the height of the controller
of the movie itself plus 16 in this case
have said it to 20 because it's just an
audio movie so the height of the movie
itself is 0 this is a just a JPEG but in
this case if this movie had opened alone
in its own window it just would have
been an audio controller and in this
case it's where it really belongs so it
looks a lot nicer and that's that's the
long and short of it if that's all you
do you'll have done a lot of the right
thing rather than just drink to it but
there's more this doesn't always work
just what you want to the notion of a
plug-in was created by Netscape and when
they invented the plug-in they had this
idea that okay browsers can display a
lot of things but people invent new
media types that we can't display or
don't display yet so people will create
a media type and they'll create a
plug-in and you'll say oh my media type
is flash so I'll have a flash plugin and
when the browser sees a flash media
types it will load the Flash plugin all
will be well but then things began to
change so that multiple browsers
multiple plugins could handle the same
mp3 and smile are good examples real
handles and QuickTime handles and
windows media handles them there's all
kinds of audio plugins that will handle
in mp3 so when the browser sees an mp3
file what plug into the call it if you
look back at the embed tag you'll see we
could say what plug-in to use if there
was nobody who could handle that media
type or where to get it rather but we
weren't able to save this is a plug-in I
want to use to play this media all we
can say is it's a QuickTime movie or
it's an mp3 file so who gets it if
multiple plugins can handle it well with
netscape the first one to register with
explore the most recent one to register
and we kind of watch do some mime type
words where different peoples plugins
would grab mime types and put in the
continuous loop swear it every
interrupts it would look and see if
somebody take it as mine types and try
to get it back but the answer if you
really want to use a QuickTime movie is
to use a mime type that only quicktime
registers for and then you walk into
these conflicts and there are three
QuickTime file types that you can use
but the two we most recommend are the
mov now there were problems in the past
where sometimes the windows media player
would claim the video quicktime mime
type but that seems to be behind us
pretty much now and there are some new
solutions i'll talk about a little bit
further on that prevent that from
happening so that's now a good mime type
to use the other one that's really good
to use is the cute eif file use the
image quicktime and nobody else
registers for that however it's fairly
rare one of the problems you can get
into is if your server doesn't know
about cutie iaf files or can t g files
they're not in their table then you have
to make sure that that's put in that
table by your network administrator or
by the the webmaster and it's not hard
to do it's a one line command but it's
easy to get overlooked there's also the
dot T ntg file which is the image X
macpaint type and that is a mime type
that I guarantee no one will ever take
but if you use anything other than the
dot MOV file to play a piece of media
you need to use the Qt source parameter
the way this works is you say embed
source equals say small cute eif the
other
quicktime image file the browser says oh
he wants to play a cute eif file whose
registered for that line type will only
quicktime so it loads the quicktime
plugin then the QT source plugin says
this is so the QT source parameter this
is some data that you can just pass to
quicktime once you've passed the source
and the height and the width to the
browser anything else you pass goes
directly to the plugins that gets loaded
so you can pass all kinds of information
in your HTML webpage to the quicktime
browser to get it to autoplay your movie
play at a different scale do all kinds
of neat stuff in this case what you're
telling it is even though my source was
this key gif file that's not what I want
you to play I want you to play this
movie and you could also use that to
play an mp3 file and and before pile or
any of the 200 media types windows
quicktime can play on windows or
Macintosh so if you want to use a quick
time to display a jpeg or gif well
that's fine and again if they don't have
it your plugins page and your height and
width let me show you how cutie source
looks on the demo machine
[Applause]
whoo-hoo and what you see here is that
because we're using source and QT source
because we're talking to quicktime
plugin we can tell it what to autoplay
the movie and to set the volume the
25-percent so it's not overwhelmingly
loud and this basically says we've told
the QuickTime image file is what it's
going to get but it never displays
pretending to trial which is good just
in this case but the trick to this
making this work is the source file must
actually exist you really do need to
have a QuickTime image file there to
make a quicktime image file you can open
anything like a single dot gift in
quicktime player and save it as a
quicktime image file using the exporter
so then you've got a little backup but
it doesn't really matter what it looks
like because it's never displayed
quicktime will it's the only place the
only plug in and we'll try to display it
and it knows better because you're
telling it the QuickTime source is the
movie not the image file now there's a
that's the embed tag and if this is what
you use then you're really going to go a
long way it's going to work in quicktime
everytime quicktime is installed it'll
get the quicktime plugin if it's not
installed and it will never be
distracted by another mime type there's
also an object tag the object tag is
very useful because it lets you specify
a particular plug-in in this case in
activex control using the ID and it
gives you the URL of the activex control
if it's not there so on Windows this is
really terrific you can use the class ID
and code base that are here and you can
cut and paste them from our website it's
always the same it's large but it never
changes so it's static and the thing
that's a little different instead of
saying the source equals my movie you
have a paramus source and value as my
movie anything you had passed a quick
time in the embed tag you can pass the
object tag it's just the parameter name
and value or past separately in a per am
element and this is now getting a little
closer to xml it's a little more strict
so you have to close your object tagged
properly not just leave it hanging
but it's pretty nice the browser gets
the file types in the server HTML but it
doesn't matter because you have told the
browser that it's going to use a
particular activex control so it doesn't
really matter what the file type is and
if it's not installed it automatically
gets its in that download URL it is
installed it opens it it's great the
only problem with this is that it only
works in internet explorer for windows
you probably have some of you are more
familiar with the w3 specs and others
will sail embed is not a standard but
object is ways standards but it's a
broken standard the object tag as
written here will only work in internet
explorer for windows not any other
browser and not internet explorer on any
other operating system however you can
put them together and this gets to be a
lot of code but there's really not that
much to it what you've done is you've
taken the object tag and stuck the embed
tag right in the middle of it and what
this does is it says okay I'm an
Internet Explorer for windows I will use
the class ID in code base and I will get
to quicktime plugin period if I'm not if
I'm on another operating system you're
using another browser then i'll use the
mime type in the source file to
determine which plugin to use and the QT
source will tell quicktime which movie
to play and the plugins page will tell
me what to do if plugin if clicked on is
not installed and i'm not an internet
explorer for windows and let me just
back up a little bit here if you look at
this this embed tag what if you just
using bibtex without the object tag this
works fine on internet explorer for
windows this works fine on all browsers
and all platforms you don't have to use
the object tag but if you're on internet
explorer for windows and quicktime is
not installed you have a problem because
internet explorer for windows does not
honor the plugins page tag anymore
because it's not a plug-in it's an
activex control at least I think that's
the rationale anyway if quicktime is not
installed it will just say i don't know
what to do and so the answer is to put
this at least once in your website if
you haven't gateway to your website once
the user gets the a QuickTime activex
control the embed tag works fine so at
least once they have to hit this object
to know that if this is the acadec
control we want but I think you'll find
that if using the latest generation of
web generating tools built around the
embed tag with the object tag anyway
there's a website QT bridge they make a
product called pas GOP AG eot it's
French but it's free and you can just
drop your folder full of web pages on
and it'll go through and turn all the
embed tags into embed tags Plus object
tags so there's lots of free automated
health to this you don't have to type it
in every time but this is the belt and
suspenders way to go particularly if
sometime in the future internet explorer
decides to drop support for the embed
tag and say we're only using the object
then you will really be glad that all
your tags look like this because they'll
continue to work on every system so
don't use href do use in bed or better
still use object and in bed together and
are we any questions so far we all kind
of on the same things yeah
majority okay the question is if
explorer takes the most recent way
recent plug-in to register for mime type
and Netscape takes the first one how
does the firework Safari also takes the
most recently registered for that mime
type there's a split it's much more like
a Windows system now which is a registry
and the most recent person to alter the
registry is the person who is listed in
that registry but let me show you here
on the demo machine a little bit how
that look again it looks it acts the
same and make this a little bigger so
you can see the text so you've got a
class ID he's got a code base and this
says this is the activex I want this is
where it is you don't have it and here's
the embed tag if you are not internet
explorer for windows which obviously
we're not we're safari on the Macintosh
so I guarantee you that if you pass the
MOV file type Safari will bring a quick
time I don't think it even asked
question okay yes
the question is the Indian bed tag don't
we have a link to the Apple web page and
in fact we do it's the plugins page I
may have no mitad it from the the slide
here just because it takes up a lot of
space on the screen okay now once you
have quicktime plugin talking to your
web page you can tell put time to do a
lot of interesting stuff and very web
friendly you can tell it for example to
autoplay the movie when it starts or to
set a background color so that it
matches the background of your web page
to have the controller on or no
controller on so you can have your own
stuff going on that lots of stuff enable
JavaScript so you can have JavaScript
control the QuickTime movie Step hot
spots for a virtual reality there's an
href tag that lets you say okay somebody
clicks on the movie open this URL and
that could be the URL of another movie
or a different webpage it lots of things
put it in kiosk mode so people can't
save the movie tell it to loop the movie
continuously if it's a virtual reality
pano you can set the pan tilt and field
of view for it to open with which is a
really nice thing without having to go
in all to the movie itself QT next to
say when this movie is done play this of
the movie or open this other URL when
the movie is done set the scale to play
twice as big half as big as it normally
is you can target a movie so with
someone clicks on the movie it causes
the URL to opening a frame in a browser
window and QuickTime Player or to
replace the QuickTime movie itself and
I'll show you that in a moment and you
can set the y on this lots and lots of
HTML friendly features of QuickTime you
can access now and control directly from
your web page so one of the first things
i'm going to show you about that is
using a poster movie one of the problems
with embedding movies and web pages
they're big so if you've got a 26
megabyte movie file and somebody goes to
your webpage and it starts downloading
and it's kind of rude especially they're
on a dial-up account wait a minute I
don't know if I signed up for this so
you can use a single image to bring up
the quicktime plugin and then warn the
person that you know
if you click this something that's going
to happen and then let that be the lead
in to play the QuickTime movie or two to
not and clicking the poster connect to
do a number of things basically it tells
quick time I want to do something and it
could it could load another movie load a
webpage you could execute a JavaScript
function it could fire off a movie a
quicktime player and was the key to
adjust the href tag you have a source
your which is in this case let's see
where's Lou that's up cutie source or
someone did but the CD source would be
to your movie and there's an href so
when you click on the movie it opens
that that URL in the target if there's a
target let me show you that we're here
on the demo machine there's only do it
for the Audubon Society they didn't want
the sound of the Loon which is a big
audio file to load immediately so here
we have just as click here for the
QuickTime audio this is a little poster
sitting under the loan if I click it it
loads of Krypton movie
okay there's a good question is is there
a difference between eh graph in the QT
sort yes cutie source okay this is
really kind of an interesting little tag
look at this embed tag the source is a
small quicktime image file and all that
does is tell the browser I want to use
QuickTime the QuickTime source it's
actually a gift I can tell quicktime to
display any kind of file i want i'm
going to reload this page and you see
this is a gift this little speaker icon
in this text this is just a gift called
speaker gift it's got a high 8 in the
woods and it's a but i'm opening with
quicktime when you open a gift in quick
time it opens it is a still image but
it's now a quicktime movie so if you're
in control or off because we don't to
play this movie we just want to click on
it I've said autoplay to be false
because you know let's deploy but if i
click on it that will launch the href
URL which will be losing one move target
myself so this is when i click on the
movie load this URL and the target is
the movie that I clicked on replace
yourself with this to this QuickTime
movie so right now we're looking at
speaker gift and when I click on it it
will load loon one move right where it
is it'll replace yourself with the movie
the reason I'm using hype okay why am I
using high 20 instead of height 1616 is
the correct height for the controller
and the reason is because the gift was
20 pixels that I was given and I did
this is a favor to some people who are
doing a web site okay so it's yes I'm
sorry I can't hear the question why
don't we use a rollover sure we can use
a roll over there are lots of ways to do
this but I'm just showing you a poster
movie which is basically a movie that
you click to launch another movie this
is just one more technique here or it
should be included in the poster movie
it opposes prime why don't you include
roll over at the post to the frame
because you have to right click on that
frame oh yeah I say why don't I use the
roll over instead of right and click on
that frame sure you could do that that
would be a fine thing to do if there's
no particular reason why I didn't do
that although sometimes you want people
to uh to click on the image but yeah a
JavaScript rollover works fine there ok
now another thing you can use a poster
movie forrest launch quicktime player
and one of the reasons you might want to
do that is so you can get a full screen
movie now to launch a movie in quicktime
player is pretty straightforward but not
terribly impressive you just set target
equals quicktime player instead of
target equals myself but to get a full
screen movie you need to have either a
movie that's in full screen mode or you
have to have some way to tell foot time
i want to play this movie in full screen
mode even though it's not necessarily a
full screen movie but the short answer
is use target equals quicktime player
and there are three ways to well there
are several there are several ways to
make a movie into a full screen movie is
an apple script you can put it use an
apple script to turn on a full screen
movie mode for any movie and say when
this movie plays it is to plan full
screen mode if it's in quicktime player
there's a little tool free tool from
Apple called plug-in helper that will
set that characteristic for you you can
use of like cleaner or live stage to set
that characteristic you can put a wired
sprite inside the movie just drop it in
there I'm a full screen sprite and when
I get loaded too i go to full screen
mode or you can use an xml text
don't worry about that in a second okay
look let me bring up a couple movies and
show you a little bit more about that
here's a web page and it's got a poster
when I click the poster it's going to
launch click the poster both launch a
full screen between QuickTime Player why
not use a rollover well could have done
that too but the key is that you get
differently see that's a big way so here
we set the movie to play a full screen
movie and put when done this is a really
nice experience and somebody comes to
your web page and they click on
something it goes full screen the movie
plays and one has done they're right
back at the web page like it was never
there and it gives the impression that
you've got a full screen plugin there's
no such thing the browser gives a little
space to plug in but the plug-in now
calls the quicktime player and quicktime
player can go fullscreen and then drop
back into the browser when it's done so
this is a really nice technique and you
just show you something here make sure
it to you in a larger way is this
readable at all can you see that text
maybe not okay well how big can we go
how's that getting somewhere this is a
really simple text file this is an XML
text file and it just says I'm an XML
text file I'm a QuickTime media link
these first two lines are always the
same so you can cut and paste them you
don't have to remember that just type it
in just cut and paste it all that really
matters is your very last line here
embed source equals and here you just
put in all your embed tag you would want
to do so you can set full screen mode
autoplay quit when done it's really
handy just as a text file and you can
see it's a text box that just open it up
with a text editor but
if i change that to an MOV file it will
warn me hey you can't just change file
extensions like that but yes you can wow
so XML the miracle of XML you take an
XML file you give it an MOV file
extension quicktime will play it as a
movie and this is great now i can embed
that movie in my web page or i can call
it from anything like it's just it's
just really terrific to have this
capability at your fingertips so that's
kind of any technique i want you to know
about okay we've seen posters no no that
the question is that only for Safari
that works in any web browser that
success in any web browser this out
there today okay question we're getting
some questions about this limit let me
go into this a little bit more than
think I have some other movies that
illustrate this maybe just a little bit
better obviously I've kind of dropped a
bombshell here ridgeville wait a minute
okay waited to it let's look at these
okay this hard way
I'm sorry the XML is not being
interpreted by the browser at all it's
by quick time we've got the browser to
call quick on this is by the way it's
taken from the website for the book and
let's look at delivery okay
ok
so first we're just opening a QuickTime
movie a movie in quicktime player then
we're going a little step further and
opening it in full screen and let's city
ok now we didn't have to change the file
type from text to mov we could have
changed into q tal q tal is defined as
application quicktime player and when
you open a QTL file the Browse we should
automatically launch quicktime player
that's how real disease like Daria rram
files and the browser just knows to use
their player the problem is that again
there's it isn't always registered for
that sometimes it downloads and plays at
least we call a mouse dropping behind at
least the QTL file behind on the viewers
disk so we tend to use it as a mov file
so it opens in the plug-in and then let
the plug-in launch the player rather
than ask the browser to launch the
player so if you use the if you use any
at file extension besides MLB or QTL the
operating system is going to treat that
as telling you what kind of file type it
is if you call it jpg it's going to try
to open it as a JPEG right it's call it
txt it's going to display it but if you
call it a dot MOV file or you use the Qt
source parameter to open it with
quicktime to put time at the movie
quicktime looked at and goes ah it's XML
I know what this is and then it opens
the movie you want to play so it's a
little bit of a shell game here where
you're telling the browser the file type
is something quick time can open until
quicktime treat this is a movie and then
look quick time do the right thing about
the xml you can name it QTL and try to
get the browser or the operating system
to open it with quicktime player that
should also work but in my experience is
not entirely reliable okay yeah
means you'll have an ultramoon difficult
the maximum five this cold yes okay
here's the question we have we have a
poster movie that calls an XML file that
specifies yet another movie and that's
right so we're getting kind of several
levels of interaction here but that's
how it work it would be obviously the
key is that it allows you to connect
thing about doing it this way that XML
files can be generated by a perl script
or CGI really easily you don't have to
actually generate movies and specify
them you can just say play the movie of
the day don't move and have a text file
that spits out the right movie which
could be specific to the browser to the
user to all kinds of things so it's
really handy to have that kind of
interaction although it is a little
confusing sometimes okay yes Oh which
version of quicktime will recognize the
xml quicktime for dot one and later i
believe so what we found is we simply
have the auto update in place that
people we're not finding old versions of
quicktime very often anymore quicktime
for and later automatically update 25
automatically updates 26 some people
choose not to do the download so you
might hit quicktime 5 but the likelihood
that you'll hit something that can't
interpret that XML files very unlikely
okay so if you have a poster movie a
couple of things make the poster the
size of the movie that you really want
to play plus 16 for this room for a
controller set the controller fall for
the poster because otherwise people will
try to play the poster instead of
clicking on it set the href parameter
equal to the URLs a movie you want to
play when somebody clicks on it if you
want the poster to morph into a movie
then set target equals myself and let me
show you just one more thing about about
that back in the demo machine is here we
go multi movies here you know we've got
a web page 23 movies on it but we really
don't want to download all three movies
simultaneously so what we do is we say
okay
flowers from tripping birds and China's
bunny rabbits all this year ok so what
we're seeing here is posters that link
that turn into movies when you click
them and i'll just show you something
that i won't really explain but it is in
the book which is you can have a poster
transyl movie
and then turn right back into a poster
again that's a little bit of legerdemain
where you put something in the movie
that says when I'm done replace me with
this other movie which in this case is a
poster but the trick here is the poster
movie is 16 pixels taller than the real
movie for there's room for a controller
and the poster movie doesn't have a
controller because you don't want people
to play it you want people to click on
it so that's sitting target equals
quicktime player for full screen movies
you can either make the movie itself a
full screen movie that just when it
plays it plays in full screen or you can
use xml to set full screen mode to play
any movie you want in the full screen
and any more questions that we just
covered okay we're all on the same page
or else people are going to be glazed
over one way or the other ok let's look
at playing some things besides QuickTime
movies in quicktime player or quicktime
plugin why would you want to do that mp3
audio mp4 flash smile rtst streams some
of these things like smile or rtsp might
be QuickTime movies and so you want to
direct them to quicktime specifically
because it is quick time but why might
you want to play an mp3 file in
QuickTime well because if you just load
up an mp3 file and say you embed this
and play it in whatever you don't have
any idea what's going to play it you
don't know what it's going to look like
you can't really control you can set
autoplay or set the volume you don't
know if is going to open an application
it's going to download quicktime is
pretty nice as it actually will play it
for you and it download it plays it
while it's downloading and you can set
it to auto start and you know set the
volume level instead it's a loop or set
it to put an href on it so somebody
clicks on your put a poster with it you
know so somebody clicks on the poster
while the movie song is playing their
tickets your website with an opportunity
to buy the album that sort of thing so
you can use QT stores to specify
anything if the over 200 media types of
clicked on can fly and say no I want to
play this in quick time and as we saw in
this previous demo you can say display a
gift but when somebody clicks on the
gift take a quick time action based on
that so it's a really handy way to
repurpose other media and again it's
fairly straightforward the source is
some images quicktime some piece of
media that only quicktime registers for
and the QT source is anything for time
can play and i just go ahead and show
you that
again here this is not a QuickTime movie
it's an mp3 and we told it's the kind of
image file that the Cutie sources at mp3
so it's playing mp3 with clicked on even
though quicktime is not necessarily the
registered plugin for mp3 but we can
make it play anything because we got the
browser to let us talk to quicktime okay
so that thing has left the mpeg-4 which
you would use similar techniques for
mpeg-4 and quicktime are close cousins
the mpeg-4 file specification is based
on the quicktime movie file
specification and that means they're
really really similar but they're not
actually the same so if it's an mp4 file
quicktime imports it and makes minor
changes in it before places it's a movie
file and MPEG four players not going to
be able to play it and there's a lot of
confusion around that because people
think of mpeg-4 is being a video codec
or the AAC audio codec and so they go
well for today HD audio I can call mov
or mp4 not true the files are similar
but slightly different so there are two
important ways you can use mpeg-4 in
QuickTime you can use mpeg-4 video or
audio inside a QuickTime movie so we've
got a QuickTime movie it can show video
compress any one of a thousand ways well
mpeg-4 is one of those kinds of
compression it can do mp3 audio is doing
it you know all sorts of compression
techniques for audio but casey audio is
one of them so you if you use this if
you use pretend mpeg-4 video or audio
input time movies you have the advantage
of being able to use the MOV file format
you can mix and match with other kinds
of QuickTime media if you want AAC audio
over your foot time virtual reality ok
and use mpeg-4 audio in a QuickTime
movie the other way to use mpeg-4 in
QuickTime is you can create play and
stream native mp4 files and this is
really a cool way to go it's
interoperable with other iso streams
files and players so you can use
quicktime to play mpeg-4 from other
peoples plus streamers or created by
other applications or you can create
mpeg-4 files in QuickTime and play them
in real or windows media player with the
correct
you can hint mpeg-4 files for streaming
in QuickTime you can authorize the mp4
file format so it's really strong
support for mpeg-4 in QuickTime more
than anything any other file types we've
ever seen and again you just use the Qt
source if you want to play in a big for
file just like you would an mp3 yeah
okay the question is why are we using QT
source for the mp4 file well because
anybody can register for mp4 you could
have a hundred different players so you
might not want to you might say hey
source equals NP for anybody is a plan
mp4 please play it I don't need
quicktime i'm not worried about that and
if you want to reach the broadest
possible I audience that might be a way
to go but if you want to be sure that
the mpeg-4 is going to play in quicktime
because you want more control over the
web page and that's the plug-in you want
to use then say source equals something
quick time will play QT source equals
the mp4 so this is a technique to play
mp4 files in QuickTime or to force
QuickTime Player to be used to play the
mp4 file you want to leave it up for
grabs that's also entirely viable option
yes okay here here we're getting the
question is showing me there's some
confusion an MOV file is not an mp4 file
you can't just change the file extension
if you open a movie in quicktime and it
has mpeg-4 audio and video you can
either save it as a quicktime movie or
you can export to mp4 and the audio and
video will not be recompressed but it
will be saved in the mpeg-4 file format
if you just change mp4 to move and back
and forth add things will happen because
there are such close cousins that if you
try to open an mpeg-4 filing quicktime
you tell it's an MOV file it will do a
superficial look and go yeah looks like
an MOV file to me this is a movie and it
will try to play it and then
it's not going to work right and if you
name a quicktime movie mp4 it might open
in another mp4 player or even quicktime
and it'll go yeah this looks like an mp4
but it isn't and again things will go
wrong so it's very important not to just
swap the file extension but to actually
import and export and I see a question
in the back
I'm not sure I heard the question oh it
in the embed tag you can set the mime
type and I think the question is does
that override the mime type of the file
not reliably the server will tell you
the browser what the mime type is the
extension will be mapped to a table and
you have the HTML and all three could be
saying different things so what should
the browser believe it within its own
table what the server is telling it or
what you're telling it it's really up to
the author of the browser and they have
different opinions about that so again
using source you can only use a
QuickTime file type you can't play mp4
it's and QuickTime using via the source
if you use the source commander point to
an mp4 it will go to whatever player is
selected for mp4 it might be a good time
it might not if you use QT source it
will use QuickTime to play mp4 s or
anything else mpeg-4 audio and video can
be in a movie or it can be in an mp4
file you can export movies to mp4 to
force and mp4 file to use QuickTime use
source and QT source just use source
it's up for grabs but they're not the
same more questions
okay yeah here's the question is if you
use cutie source is it going to play in
quicktime even if something else
selected for mp4 yes because the source
is what the browser looks at the source
the the browser doesn't know anything
about cutie source and look at that
parameter and says this is jibber-jabber
to me I know the source the source is a
QuickTime movie or QuickTime image file
so I'm calling quicktime then quicktime
says I know what a QuickTime sources
I'll play this mp4 file so the browser
has no idea that it's dealing with an
mp4 file it just notes about the source
file by the way make the source file
small because the browser is going to
download it so just use a little image
quicktime image file it's good for that
or a small QuickTime movie a couple of k
all right and let me i'm going to show
you an mpeg-4 file just like the MP
actually i'm going to open this internet
explorer because i have to
[Music]
you know what happened the audio there
here we've got an MPEG 4 player file
playing in quicktime in internet
explorer and believing internet explorer
does not know this version of internet
explorer does know what an impact for
file is let alone know the QuickTime
should play it but it's happy to do it
because it said the source is a
QuickTime image file so the Qt source
can be anything it just doesn't know now
there's
I'm sorry can I hear that question again
okay will this work if you leave source
equals mp4 empty I'll leave the source
empty if the source tag is empty then
the browser has no idea what you want to
do no quick time will only load if the
browser is told to load a file that it
can't play and the quicktime plugin is
registered for the file has to exist and
it has to be able mime type that only
quick timers registered for and a quick
time is not installed then you want to
have the plugins page tag there now I
just a caveat for this this is all
somewhat less to an Internet Explorer
for windows because the object tag says
I want the quicktime plugin if it's not
there go get it and whatever it gets
played is up to the plug-in so it's less
sensitive if when you use the object tag
you're saying we're playing it in quick
time I don't care so it's been different
but any other browser any other
operating system you really need to use
the source and cutie source this way but
the key thing I'm trying to get across
is the movie and the mpeg-4 are a little
different and you can't just change the
file extension they were expecting you
to work the same way and okay
so let's change subjects all together
and talk about streaming it's been ready
for a change in topic okay okay it would
be enough then they saw and beg for
people i would have multiple times what
i'm hearing tested despite opening
service the quick tiles okay the
question is if i set the source I
understand the question if I set the
source to a QuickTime movie chance I
then set the source to an mp4 file why
do I have to use QT source because you
can't have to source parameters in the
same tag if the source is one thing
that's what it is so the Qt sources and
I'll use your other swords with the
source tag is for the browser the Qt
sources for the plugin okay all right
there's some great stuff happening in
streaming and streaming is a little
different from the kind of movies have
been looking at here on our disk it uses
real-time protocols the real difference
between streaming and and the movies
we've been looking at is that streaming
is these real-time protocols goes of the
network in such a way that a one minute
movie is transmitted in one minute all
right so if you've got a fast internet
connection it still takes a minute if
you get a slow internet connection and
it can't hold the data it's coming over
in a minute so if it doesn't get through
it just doesn't get through it to
dropped on the floor you can't like
buffer it up and watch it later it's a
real time protocol the good thing about
that is you can carry live audio and
video things are happening in real time
and there's no way to carry live audio
and video if steps with streaming you
can't record it and play the recorded
movie happening now another good thing
is if you record a stream and record a
movie and you stream it you can start
streaming from any point in the movie
and that's really nice you got a
two-hour movie
people want to skip around or you've got
multiple lessons in learning course if
you want to go to lesson 3 or listen to
that again they don't have to load
download the whole movie to that point
to watch it they can just skip right to
that point and start screaming from the
middle of the movie and it supports a
multicast now this is really a cool
thing if you have a movie and you've got
a you know campus land you've got a
hundred people watching a movie you're
sending out a hundred copies of the
movie over the network and you've all
seen what happens when two thousand
people fire up their laptops over the
local airport network you know it's
pretty extreme but if you send one copy
of a stream to a multicast address
everyone can turn their computer to that
multicast address and watch the movie
and you're really only sending out one
copy of the movie over the network and
everybody is looking because the network
remember a packet network everybody it's
kind of like post cards right they go
past everybody but your computer only
looks at the ones that are addressed it
but if I say this is one that everybody
can look at and all your computers can
look at it if it goes by on the bus or
through the ether you don't have to send
multiple copies so that's that's really
nice that doesn't work over the internet
but works great over campus plans and
the corporate lands the bad things about
streaming are it has to fit within the
available bandwidth if you've got a 28
kilobits per second movie playing on a
27 kilobit per second connection it
doesn't play you don't see anything you
don't hear anything the other thing is
that because it's a real time protocol
typically lost data is not retransmitted
and over the internet there's some law
so you have little artifact video audio
dropouts things don't show up and third
thing is limited to certain media types
audio video text and URL events that
sounds like a lot check audio video and
it is a lot but there's no flash there's
no VR there are lots of things that you
can't send 3d models fast start movies
on the other hand or something that
quicktime quicktime is a world-class
streaming client but if you really just
want to stream audio and video whether
you use windows or windows media or real
or QuickTime you know there's trade-offs
this reasons why you might want to
choose each one but when it comes to
fast our quick time is the absolute
champion there's nothing else like it
Jesus Colin web protocols data transfer
time is a movie it's movie size / the
bandwidth
you've got a one megabyte movie and
you've got a one megabyte per second
connection one second transfer time you
know if you get 28 kilobit connection
obviously much longer but it's going to
get there and the good things about that
is your quality is not limited by your
available bandwidth you can have if you
give the QuickTime movie trailer so you
see some really nice-looking stuff you
can watch that over any kind of
connection you have to wait longer but
you can see it and so you don't have
that trade-off we say well most of my
customers have this speed to connection
so I can only have this good of quality
movie you can say no quality comes first
and people will wait as long as they
have to wait or they'll have a smaller
version for people with slower motives
the movie transfer is pristine there's
no data loss it's a packet gets drop it
gets retransmitted and unlimited
mediatek flash dr sprites 3d all kinds
of interactivity so that's really nice
bad things about fafsa movie so you
can't play from the middle you have to
download the whole movie if you want to
play the last minute of the movie if to
our movie you can equate to download
gifts to the last minute no skipping
around and you can skip backwards but
not forward you can't carry live events
obviously in a pre-recording and there's
a perception that fast our movies are
easier to copy because oh you're
downloading a file as opposed to just
playing a stream and there are reasons
why that isn't really is true as it once
was there was a time when yeah you know
you download the file but their ways now
you can download just a header the
information and leave the source on your
server and also there are ways you can
copy the streams from the audio and
video buffer so they're about equally
secure now if you if you follow the tips
for protecting your movie I don't really
have time to go into that in this
section but it is covered in detail in
the book and there's some free tools
that will separate you have you been to
some other foot time sessions you
understand that in quick time the movie
is the organizing principle is not the
data a QuickTime movie says what to play
and when to play it and how to play it
the data itself can be on another server
on a hard disk on a floppy disk on live
streams can be all over the world the
movie is just the the explanation of
what to do with it so if you have the
movie on the user's hard disk and the
data on your server and a data reference
that says get the movies data from the
server that's what it's going to do and
somebody copied to data from your server
the movie is still going to get it from
your server that data is just a rock
anyclip time engineer can put them
together but most of your customers
presumably or not quicktime engineer so
unless somebody builds a tool to pirate
this to assist them in copying it it's
pretty secure now so how do you play a
stream how do you put a stream in a web
page a little different because he uses
the real-time rtsp protocol its URL is
going to start with rtsp and if you just
embed it in a web page what's going to
happen is even if the DA to MOV file its
rtsp my server my path might move many
times the browsers will go Oh rtsp that
means I better use real or all that
means somebody's Windows Media Player or
that must mean I use Joe's streamer so
what you do is use source and QT source
ordinarily with QT sores quick time will
tell the browser to get a file for it it
will use the facilities of the browser
to do the download even though the
browser isn't displaying it so you use
QT source don't use browser this is a
tag which tells quicktime not to use the
browser to get to quicktime source movie
and that way the rtsp will not be
redirected or misdirected it says
quicktime use your own resources to get
this it's usually pretty good I think
current versions will will will do that
automatically for Arceus because I gotta
click on engineer in the audience not
today okay I'm on my on believe that's
correct so another choice is you can use
a text movie to embed a strain and i'll
show you saw that work with the xml that
could be an rtsp URL there are a couple
ways third ways to use a reference movie
if i open a stream and quicktime player
and save as a self-contained movie what
am i saving well it's a QuickTime movies
it's basically a wrapper around a URL
and then I can embed that movie in a web
page and it will open the stream when
somebody clicks on it so let me kind of
show you a couple ways to do the text
movie let's see if this works go over
here to the demo machine and I will once
again show you a text file and the thing
up my sleeve
this is just an rtsp URL and there are
eight characters that precede that URL
rtsp all uppercase teehee XD all
lowercase this is known as the text Adam
hack and I won't go into all the reasons
for that but if you start a file with
the characters rtsp txt and then
immediately follows up with an rtsp URL
you can treat that as a quicktime movie
and quicktime will open that URL but
what do you have to do to make that work
well you have to say it's a movie file
not a text file so that instead of
trying to display it the browser will
use where the operating system will use
QuickTime to display it
yeah this is a very this is using a tech
movie instead of a reference movie again
a reference movie is I open the stream
and quicktime player i save it i say
i've created a quicktime movie and
that's a perfectly good way to go why
would you use this instead maybe you
don't want to create QuickTime movies
maybe you just want to generate txt
files because it's a hassle it saves you
a step again if you're using PHP or
pearl or something to generate these you
can generate these movies that are just
you know anything you can generate a
text file can generate one of these
movies and hopefully yeah again I just
open a text file as a movie I'm playing
it quicktime is doing the right thing
and after little buffering because we're
coming from down unda nothing with a few
g's but is like one giant metal messages
through this live from Australia okay
I'm sorry
can I use oh yes can I use chapters well
that question is can I use chapters in
that kind of streaming movie the answer
is no not exactly to use chapters in a
streaming movie you really have to have
a regular movie and a stream here's an
example of a moot of a streaming movie
this is actually a webcast from steve
jobs keynote in 1999 a really inspiring
keynote that went on for two hours so if
you just wanted to know what he had to
save a quick time at that point it would
be really nice to be able to just jam
down there and see it and so you can
skip around here becomes huge for us we
announced quick time for quick time for
okay so here's an example of a two-hour
movie and how long do they have to wait
to download the part I wanted use
chapter lists with streaming movies that
are long they don't stream chapter
listing off streams so what you have to
do is you open the streaming movie up in
quicktime player then you add a chapter
list in quicktime pro this is a text
file it's really easy to do there's free
tools that will do it for you look
around the internet utilities on the web
all kinds of cool stuff it's really easy
to do and it really enhances the value
especially for distance learning of long
streaming movies but the question was
can you do that with an xml file and the
answer is no the rtsp hack is just the
past in RTF to URL if you want to do
more elaborate mixtures you really have
to use a reference movie the first date
characters are case sensitive question
is what part of the of the rtsp hack is
case sensitive the first eight
characters the first four characters
left the uppercase rtsp the second floor
characters must be lowercase T exe and
what's happening is the QuickTime
quicktime player is trying to open a
QuickTime movie it's looking for a movie
Adam it says well I don't see a movie
Adam that I see a text adam is the
length of the text Adam the characters
are TSD that's why we call it a hack
you can all see use XML the way I showed
you earlier that's a far more structured
away and that works beautifully and then
you can tell it to play it in quicktime
player and full screen and you know you
can pass what kinds of extra parameters
which is also very nice oh yeah here
here B is the xml version so instead of
using the rtsp hat so you can't remember
whether use up or lowercase and it's
confusing just use the XML it stays the
same top first few lines are always the
same it's an XML at the media link and
even bet you'd give it the MOV file
extension and embedded just like any
QuickTime movie and that gives you the
advantage of being able to add some
other things now some of the extra
plug-in features are going to work with
a streaming movie but most of them will
question the question is he gentlemen
saw earlier in XML files you would drag
and drop under quicktime player that
would turn into a movie file that has a
that was a media skin basically
quicktime is moving towards XML XML is
the data format that's going to conquer
the world we thought it was mp3 we were
wrong its XML basically more and more as
we go forward you'll find that you can
export anything from any any format into
XML and then import it into any
compatible version so what's happening
here is this is a QuickTime xml and
we're saying the embed so we're giving
it the embed tag we're saying okay this
is the QuickTime media link here's the
source if instead of QuickTime media
Lincoln it's a QuickTime media skin we
would give it some image files click on
has all kinds of growing list of XML
importers so basically you will be able
to pass all kinds of things as we go
into the future to quicktime as xml and
so the syntax will be very similar but
the actual parameter specifically be a
little different for skin you'll want to
give it an image file in a math file a
drag region for a movie you'll just give
it a URL
okay embedding streams in a web page
using reference movie have pretty much
talked about that you open the stream
you save it as a self-contained movie
and it's just a wrapper for URL it works
great the bonuses you can then edit the
movie to add things like the chapter
list and let me show you some other
things you can add your streams there
again I don't have time to go into the
techniques and I don't mean to cheat you
that way that I think it's worth seeing
some things here's a yeah this is a
QuickTime movie it's got a media skin so
it doesn't look like a QuickTime movie
it looks like its own application and
when we play it we've got quicktime dr
here so obviously this is uh this gets
the media types of don't stream i can
interact with it i can drag it around I
can drive myself crazy with it but I can
also place an audio but here we've got
in player with a lot of things that are
even more interesting arguably than
exact one of those amazing Michael shaft
productions would just blows your mind
every time well yeah you can mix things
with stream so streaming is great and
non streaming is great and mixing them
is really here's something a little bit
you don't have to be something a little
more understated okay the question is
how do you really do this and the answer
is you open the streaming track in
quicktime player and then save it it's
self-contained movie now you've got a
streaming movies and then you can open
that in quicktime player and edit it
just as you would any other movie to add
flash ads sprites it's just one more
media type that you're mixing in and
this media type is a streaming track
which is just basically a wrapper around
a URL and here's wilco there's a really
nice high quality mpeg-4 playing and
again you see your player doesn't have
to be doesn't have to be loud or
abrasive if it can be just you know
really attractive and there's some
really nice ones coming out now so it's
it's a nice thing to do and let me see
if I can ok that's the recorded stream
what I just told you live streams are a
little different and I will show you
that now ok pre-recorded stream we just
talked about that when you add a media
to stream you can either add it or you
can add scaled if you use quicktime
player pro it basically add scale to
take the duration of the thing i've
selected and add i want to add a still
image to a streaming audio i add scale
they select the whole streaming audio
and add this image for the duration of
the audio for live streams it's a little
trickier I wonder if I have a live
stream i can open here i think i do i'm
going to try to show you this the first
I'm going to explain it just in case I
can't show you you're going to open the
stream in quicktime player and save it
but now you've got a pointer to a live
stream live stream doesn't have unknown
duration
quicktime doesn't know how long it is or
where you are in the stream is just the
eternal now so you have to disable the
streaming track in order to do any
editing because editing is time-based
and that's the trick if you use
quicktime player pro if using another
tool you know it may be very simple if
they open this live stream and have this
media and it just works I think live
stage just hides all that from you if
you're trying to do it in quicktime
player pro you know for thirty dollars
then you have to jump through some hoops
but you basically the thing is you
disable the streaming track and that
will get your time slider back bringing
your other media ad scaled to the whole
duration and then re-enable you're alive
track and i'll try to show you that now
this is the is where the demo gets off
into some interesting areas okay right
ok and school mixing ok think I'll try
ok
ok listen guinea live stream here
[Music]
now as you can see there's no time
slider in the control because we don't
know what the story is with that we
don't know what time it is how long it
is we can't skate backwards because it's
live we can't skip forward to supplies
but if I go into the movie whether the
edit okay let me do it command J get
information here's the movie information
and it has one track which is a
streaming track and that's all it has
it's in queue design to its classical
music lovely alright and what I'm going
to do now is I'm going to disable that
track put enable track menu and say here
are not along your navel thank you now
you see we have a time slider so now if
I want to open ok here's what radio move
here's a something that looks like a
radio and I'll extract track from it and
the other picture sounds good strike
that that's good ok now I have an image
it has the duration of it's really long
ok cool ok so
copy that I hit tamanna let me do it so
you can see copy and I just when you
copy with nut with nothing selected it
copies the image that you shame okay I
didn't need to save that go back here
and now select all edit has scaled okay
and now I believe I can re-enable the
streaming track right and now I have an
image the food duration is more or less
eternal right along and so here I've
basically added a picture to a live
stream it was little tricky i had to
turn in disable it then re-enable it a
good slider me knockin toxicol this glue
sup man hi but obviously the principle
here is pretty straightforward if you
have a live radio station you want to
have it playing with the image of your
radio station or the song is being
played you don't want to have it just
playing in the player you can mix live
streams with non streaming media and the
book goes into great detail about other
ways to do that is there a QuickTime
call to swap tix there is live sprite
actions that you can use to swap things
you can have it as part of the movie yes
there are ways to make the image change
with what's being broadcast let's see do
I have a player that does that okay okay
now i think we've kind of gone over why
you extreme vs fast start embedding
streams in the web page using source and
QT source text movies reference movies
pre-recorded the live streams any
questions but we just tell us all right
we're on the same page this is going
good we have three and three and a half
minutes so are ya I just real quickly
you if if we had a if I have a live
stream going like that and i want to put
indexes for scene change with the
question he asked about changing the
picture your standard like change the
album art for the further thing but you
want to do a live stream like off a
radio station not a sequence
concatenated mp3 files how would you
approach that what i would do is i would
get channel storm which is an
application that does just that it's a
live studio in software and quicktime
supports this but you can't do it easily
from quicktime broadcaster you need a
little bit more sophisticated
application that can say send an event
stream mix this current basically you're
sending life what you're doing is you're
streaming video as well as audio it's
just your your video has a very low
bandwidth gun is that's the short answer
and you could also send text with URLs
if you wanted to load up a web page at
that point yeah for streaming trex saw
streaming movie can you add can you
stream gauge math tricks can you add
excuse eh rent checks hrf track yes hrf
track streams actually still you can add
an h RF track to a streaming movies
where you can stream the href track and
an href track for those of you who don't
know is a text track which consists of a
series of URLs but it's a QuickTime text
track so these these URLs arrive at a
certain time and basically it says when
I get to this point in the movie load
this URL and let me yeah let me show you
that over here this little demo of it
something like that and this is worth
seeing it's kind of cute few shows all
the work
doesn't look from me let's try this one
okay
welcome to the audio tour this is an
example of the talking web tour it
combines an audio track and an href
track the hrs track loads HTML pages
into the top frame synchronized to the
narration the tour is controlled by the
audio movie playing in the frame at the
bottom of the page you can pause the
audio movie at any time to explore links
in the upper frame ok so this is live
HTML it's being driven by an HP ref
track in the movie which is unexpected I
think we have a bug to report to Apache
ago open this an exploder and here's a
tricky thing that browse through
sometimes do it's actually downloading
the movie from the hard disk to a cache
on the hard disk that's another reason
why you might sometimes want to use QT
source don't use browser if you're
distributing large movies on a CD and
you find that you just try to open the
movie the browser thinks that the movie
is coming from the web because it's not
you know really very intelligent
sometimes so it's trying to load this
high bandwidth movie from the disk put
into a disk cache play it out of the
disk cache basically doing three times
the work it needs to do and if it's a
high-bandwidth movie it can show for
take a very long time so if you use QT
source don't use browser that avoids
that bring the sound back up so this is
this movie plays along the sample
content for chapter 3 bus to move so
that's just to show you a little bit of
some of the power of a cover of a page
right track other questions
are these examples on the website some
of them are on the website they are all
on the CD that comes with the book and
I'm putting more of them on the website
all the time the new addition there's a
third edition with QuickTime 61 now and
63 and a couple weeks we're just we're
repping the CD as we go along and we'll
be posting updates on the web you can
order it now in the Morgan Calculon
booth here at the show they'll give you
twenty percent off and free shipping I
think it's expected next week or couple
weeks two weeks okay real soon um
similar to the last thing that you
showed are you able in the skins to
embed like HTML web functionality kind
of like a little mini browser if you
will inside of the skin that interacts
with the movie kind of the way this
movie interacted with the page yes the
short answer is yes and we're out of
time thank you very much
[Applause]
you